# Say-it-in-Swedish

A prototype of a simple tool that allows students of Swedish to practice their pronunciation by listening to sentences and recording their own versions of them. 

## Table of contents  
1. Introduction
2. Installation
3. Usage
4. Acknowledgments


### 1. Introduction
This is a school project whose aim is to give students of Swedish a simple tool to practice their pronunciation.
The tool can be used in two ways:
1. The student uploads a text file and then listens to it. After that, the student can choose the sentece/-s they want to practice pronouncing and they write it in the writing space. They can listen to the individual sentence and then record their version of it. After that, they get simple feedback: "Perfect!", "Good!", or "Ok. Try recording the sentence again.".
2. The student skips the part with the text and writes a chosen sentence in the writing space. They can listen to the individual sentence and then record their version of it. After that, they get simple feedback: "Perfect!", "Good!", or "Ok. Try recording the sentence again.".
   
### 2. Installation
Create an environment in the programming tool you use and use the requirements file ("requirements.txt") to install all the needed modules. When you have the file in the directory you will work in, write the following code in the terminal: pip install -r requirements.txt
The list of all the libraries that you will need to import is at the beginning of the document with the code, which is called "say_it_in_Swedish.py". Download also the audio file "upplastmening.mp3" and if you do not have any text file with Swedish text, there is a file, "sample_text_Swedish.txt" that you can use to test the program. 

### 3. Usage
The code has many parts that can be used for other projects if needed.  

#### Getting a file from a home directory and displaying it on the screen
The function **choose_file** allows the user to choose a text file from their home directory and if a file is chosen, the text will be displayed on the screen. 

#### Converting text to audio
For this part of the project, we decided to use the Google text-to-speech module and Playsound library. We created a function and defined different parameters within it, like entry, language, and the name of the created audio file, and made it possible to play it. The language can be easily changed. We used the function both for the text input (**generate_and_play_textfile**) and the sentence input (**generate_and_play_mening**). The audio file is stored in mp3 format. 

#### The recorder
**Start_recording** function makes it possible for the user to record their version of a chosen sentence. Within the function, the parameters for the stream are defined. The .wav file is created and stored for further comparison. The recording's quality was not good at the beginning so if you use the code and you do not get the results you expected, modify the rate, chunks, and the bufferrate. 

#### Converting the files
**convert_mp3_to_wav** is used to convert the mp3 audio file (generated by the text-to-speech function) to the wav audio file. This is for more reliable comparison results.

#### Comparison of the files and feedback
We have decided to compare the audio files by creating vectors of each file (**compare_and_feedback**) and using the cosine similarity (**cosine_similarity**) to assess the distance between the vectors. Even though we specified the features of each vector, using **mfcc**, **chroma_stft** and **spectral_contrast** and normalized the vectors, we still get results that are far from perfect. This method is not the best for comparing audio recordings and it has to be improved. 

In this part of the code we also included the feedback section as it is connected to the comparison results. We defined thresholds and feedback depending on these thresholds.

#### Interface
The last part of the code is defining labels and buttons for the interface. All of them are created in the same way. The grid method was very helpful in organizing the widgets in relation to other widgets. 

### 4. Acknowledgments 
The core code for the recorder is the one proposed by Valerio Velardo [link to the video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e9CRZEi_feA). Different features were added and some were modified. 

I have used M. Hammond's book "Python for Linguists" (2018) as the main source. 





